	Installing Chorale on Linux/Unix
	--------------------------------


	Before resorting to installing Chorale from source, you should
	check whether your Linux/Unix distribution has an existing
	binary package for Chorale. If it does, that will save you a
	lot of hassle.


Chorale uses the standard "SConstruct" mechanism, so installing it is
like any other package:

	tar xjf chorale-X.XX.tar.bz2
	cd chorale-X.XX
        scons
	sudo scons install

If all is successful, it will install two binaries: choraled, the
background daemon that does all the file-serving, and choralecd, the
desktop application that acts as the example user-interface. A small
collection of ancillary files (icons and so on) are installed in
/usr/local/share (or wherever else you tell it to).

To test the choraled installation, start it with:

	choraled <name-of-your-music-directory>

After a pause while choraled scans your media files, it will announce
its presence on the network, and UPnP and Receiver-protocol clients
should be able to connect and play your music. If you don't yet have
any suitable clients, choralecd itself can be used.

Consult "choraled --help" for other settings to customise the
operation of choraled. Once it's working to your satisfaction, you
should probably arrange for choraled to start automatically on
boot-up; exactly how this works varies from distribution to
distribution. On some systems just adding a line:

	/usr/local/bin/choraled <your-args>

to the file /etc/rc.local is enough, but on others it's more
involved. If you don't want to run choraled as root -- which, unless
you trust all the devices on your network, you probably don't -- then
the user it runs as needs read access to the music locations
(obviously) and write access to the directory its database is in ("-f"
option to choraled). If using the DVB recording features, it also
needs write access to the "<music-root>/Recordings" directory.

In a multi-computer network, probably only one server -- the one with
the music files -- should start choraled as a file server. The others,
if they have CD drives or audio outputs that should be shared, can
also run choraled but should use the "-r" and "-m" options. In
particular, Rio Receivers don't cope if more than one server is active
on the network.

By default, Chorale is built with debugging and tracing
support enabled. To build leaner versions, use:

	scons DEBUG=0
        sudo scons DEBUG=0 install

Using the tracing support (by running "choraled -d <your-args>")
should be very helpful if you need to report a problem with choraled.


Republishing Receiver servers as UPnP
-------------------------------------

Chorale 0.15 and later is capable of republishing, or gatewaying, an
existing Receiver server (such as a Rio Central) to UPnP clients (such
as Roku Soundbridge or Sony Playstation 3). To do this, use the
"--assimilate-receiver" option when starting choraled.

As the Receiver protocol only allows for one server per network, using
"--assimilate-receiver" disables Chorale's own Receiver server. (If
you supply a music-directory too, Chorale will merge the two sources
of music and supply the UPnP client with the combination.)


Rio Receiver service from Linux/Unix
------------------------------------

Rio Receivers (and Dell Digital Audio Receivers, which are the same
thing really) boot their firmware from the network when powered-on.
The firmware in question is copyright Rio, and will be for decades, so
can't be offered for download here. The file "libreceiverd/README" in
the Chorale distribution explains how and where to obtain the firmware
files.

This is only necessary for real Rio Receivers; Empeg car-player
Receiver Edition does not require these firmware files.
